Dear Venerable
My Tam, I would like to move on to the
next question from the monastic community: I would like to ask for your guidance
on repentance within the Sangha.
Dear Venerable My Tam, repentance
originates from one's own heart.
Yes, one must understand what repentance is. Repentance
is the feeling of remorse for past mistakes and the desire to
abandon future ones.
You will abandon the mistake you made. That is, I
wish not to
repeat that mistake
again. That is repentance. But there are some
mistakes that require conscious repentance,
but it takes many attempts to completely resolve them. It's
not something that can be resolved in one go. For
true repentance, one must have a contemplative
mindset. First, one must contemplate the cause and
effect of one's actions. One must contemplate the cause and effect of
one's wrong actions, how they will cause suffering to oneself
in the present, how they will cause suffering to
other beings in the present, and
what karmic consequences they will bring upon
oneself in the future.  This is the way of thinking
that allows us to achieve
our repentance. It's
interesting to think this way because we
fear the
suffering and its consequences, so we will
cultivate a determined mind to abandon
the causes we have committed.
So, I will contemplate and repent.
After sufficient contemplation,
we begin the repentance process.
To succeed in this repentance,
we must develop
methods to control our actions so that we do
n't commit sins again. That is,
repentance needs two parts:
first, the enlightened understanding of cause and effect;
second, developing methods of control, that is,
limiting and subduing ourselves so that
we don't repeat the
offense. Then, the act of repentance will quickly eliminate
sins. But if someone
says "repentance" and it becomes just a
phrase, meaning they don't
contemplate cause and effect in the present moment, meaning they do
n't see their actions as sinful, they
don't see themselves as guilty.  If you cause suffering to
others without realizing that the consequences of
your actions will bring you suffering in the
future, and without seeing that you are causing them suffering
in the future, then that contemplation is
lacking. Simply saying you
repent is incorrect.
Repentance requires thorough reflection. The
act of seeing
yourself harming
others and feeling guilty towards them
is
difficult. Once you have contemplative reflection, you
develop methods to control yourself.
Controlling your thoughts, controlling your words, controlling your actions—that is the correct method of repentance. Repentance
before increasing your merit—
yes, increasing it represents the Three Jewels, the image represents the Three Jewels, and the meaning is what is called the correct method of repentance. Repentance before increasing your merit represents the Three Jewels, the image
represents the Three Jewels, and the
meaning is what is called
the power of the Dharma to
support you in
achieving repentance,
that is, to increase your power
so that you can control your actions.
Above, there are people who repented first and their
sins were immediately eradicated.
From now on, I will never repeat the mistake again. That's
why I seek out truly virtuous practitioners.
Yes, I repent before them, and I will
receive their immense power.
Yes, if I sincerely respect them and
repent according to the Dharma, I can
easily eliminate the negative actions.
Before, I couldn't eliminate or
control them, but after I went
before
truly virtuous practitioners and
repented,
I was able to control them very well and achieve great merit.
Therefore, associating with
virtuous people
is a great blessing, and that's where it comes from.
So, that's all. Uncle Hoang Khoan shared
with the Dharma friends. What does it mean to
repent before a monk? If you haven't risen yet, repent before. If you have
risen, it means you must know how to
repent first, and you hope that the monk will give
you proof so that you can
receive the golden power of the karmic retribution from the
true practitioners, so that
you can gain more blessings and be protected
by the Three Jewels, and be dedicated to
eliminating the
karmic roots.  The bright light of the nose contains increasing karmic
causes and conditions. In this Dharma realm,
all things and events transform according to karmic causes and conditions.
Therefore, if a good karmic cause
arises, the merit increases.
If a bad karmic
cause arises, the karmic obstacles increase.
Therefore, seeking out a place where
true karmic causes increase is a
great karmic cause and a great karmic reward. Repenting before a true practitioner
is a great karmic reward and brings great benefits
to oneself. I sincerely hope that fellow practitioners
understand repentance and always seek out
virtuous and knowledgeable people like
Mr. Tran Tung and the Three Jewels to repent of their sins
and receive guidance and teachings
so that they can practice the Dharma. Then
they will be supported, their
businesses will prosper, and they will achieve success.
Wishing all fellow practitioners the spirit of II.
[Music]
[Applause]